[Docs] Translate the config tutorial (#689)
open-mmlab/mmengine: docs/en/advanced_tutorials/config.md

# Config

> MMEngine implements an abstract configuration class (`Config`) to provide a unified configuration access interface for users. `Config` supports different type of configuration file, including `python`, `json` and `yaml`, and you can choose the type according to your preference. `Config` override some magic method, this could help you access the data stored in `Config` just like getting value from `dict`, or getting attribute from instance. Besides, `Config` also provides an inheritance mechanism, it could help us better organize and manage the configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MMEngine implements an abstract configuration class (`Config`) to provide a unified configuration access interface for users. `Config` supports different type of configuration file, including `python`, `json` and `yaml`, and you can choose the type according to your preference. `Config` overrides some magic method, which could help you access the data stored in `Config` just like getting values from `dict`, or getting attributes from instances. Besides, `Config` also provides an inheritance mechanism, which could help you better organize and manage the configuration files.
```

```

## Read the configuration file.

`Config` provides a uniform interface `Config.fromfile()` to read and parse configuration files.

A legitimate configuration file should define a set of key-value pairs, and here are a few examples:

Python：

```Python
test_int = 1
test_list = [1, 2, 3]
test_dict = dict(key1='value1', key2=0.1)
```

Json：

```json
{
  "test_int": 1,
  "test_list": [1, 2, 3],
  "test_dict": {"key1": "value1", "key2": 0.1}
}
```

YAML：

```yaml
test_int: 1
test_list: [1, 2, 3]
test_dict:
  key1: "value1"
  key2: 0.1
```

For the above three formats, assuming the file names are `config.py`, `config.json`, and `config.yml`. Loading these files with `Config.fromfile('config.xxx')` will return the same result, which contain `test_int`, `test_list` and `test_dict` 3 variables.

Let's take `config.py` as an example:

```python
from mmengine.config import Config

cfg = Config.fromfile('learn_read_config.py')
print(cfg)
```

```
Config (path: learn_read_config.py): {'test_int': 1, 'test_list': [1, 2, 3], 'test_dict': {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 0.1}}
```

## How to use `Config`

> After loading the configuration file, we can access the data stored in `Config` instance just like getting/writing value from `dict`, or getting/writing attribute from instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After loading the configuration file, we can access the data stored in `Config` instance just like getting/setting values from `dict`, or getting/setting attributes from instances.
```

```python
print(cfg.test_int)
print(cfg.test_list)
print(cfg.test_dict)
cfg.test_int = 2

print(cfg['test_int'])
print(cfg['test_list'])
print(cfg['test_dict'])
cfg['test_list'][1] = 3
print(cfg['test_list'])
```

```
1
[1, 2, 3]
{'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 0.1}
2
[1, 2, 3]
{'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 0.1}
[1, 3, 3]
```

```{note}

> The `dict` object parsed by `Config` will be converted to `ConfigDict`, and then we can access the value of the `dict` the same as accessing the attribute of a instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dict` object parsed by `Config` will be converted to `ConfigDict`, and then we can access the value of the `dict` the same as accessing the attribute of an instance.
```

```

We can use the `Config` combination with the [Registry](./registry.md) to build registered instance easily.

Here is an example of defining optimizers in a configuration file.

`config_sgd.py`：

```python
optimizer = dict(type='SGD', lr=0.1, momentum=0.9, weight_decay=0.0001)
```

> Suppose we have defined a registry `OPTIMIZERS`, which includes various optimizers, and then We can build the optimizer as below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose we have defined a registry `OPTIMIZERS`, which includes various optimizers. Then we can build the optimizer as below
```

```python
from mmengine import Config, optim
from mmengine.registry import OPTIMIZERS

import torch.nn as nn

cfg = Config.fromfile('config_sgd.py')

model = nn.Conv2d(1, 1, 1)
cfg.optimizer.params = model.parameters()
optimizer = OPTIMIZERS.build(cfg.optimizer)
print(optimizer)
```

```
SGD (
Parameter Group 0
    dampening: 0
    foreach: None
    lr: 0.1
    maximize: False
    momentum: 0.9
    nesterov: False
    weight_decay: 0.0001
)
```

## Inheritance between configuration files

Sometimes, the difference between two different configuration files is so small that only one field may be changed. However, we need to copy and paste everything, and only modify one line. It is not easy to locate the specific difference when we go back to this after a long time.

> In another case, multiple configuration files may have the same batch of fields, and we have to copy and paste them in different configuration files. It will also be hard to maintain these fields in a long time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In another case, multiple configuration files may have the same batch of fields, and we have to copy and paste them in different configuration files. It will also be hard to maintain these fields in a long time.

We address these issues with inheritance mechanism, detailed as below.
```

### Overview of inheritance mechanism

Here is an example to illustrate the inheritance mechanism.

`optimizer_cfg.py`：

```python
optimizer = dict(type='SGD', lr=0.02, momentum=0.9, weight_decay=0.0001)
```

`resnet50.py`：

```python
_base_ = ['optimizer_cfg.py']
model = dict(type='ResNet', depth=50)
```

Although we don't define `optimizer` in `resnet50.py`, since we wrote `_base_ = ['optimizer_cfg.py']`, it will inherit the fields defined in `optimizer_cfg.py`.

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('resnet50.py')
print(cfg.optimizer)
```

```
{'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.02, 'momentum': 0.9, 'weight_decay': 0.0001}
```

`_base_` is a reserved field for the configuration file. It specifies the inherited(base) files for the current file. Inheriting multiple files will get all the fields at the same time, but it requires that there is no repeated fields defined in all base files.

`runtime_cfg.py`：

```python
gpu_ids = [0, 1]
```

`resnet50_runtime.py`：

```python
_base_ = ['optimizer_cfg.py', 'runtime_cfg.py']
model = dict(type='ResNet', depth=50)
```

> At this case, reading the `resnet50_runtime.py` will give you 3 fields `model`, `optimizer`, and `gpu_ids`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, reading the `resnet50_runtime.py` will give you 3 fields `model`, `optimizer`, and `gpu_ids`.
```

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('resnet50_runtime.py')
print(cfg.optimizer)
```

```
{'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.02, 'momentum': 0.9, 'weight_decay': 0.0001}
```

> In this way, we can disassemble the configuration file, define some general configuration files, and inherit them in the specific configuration file. This could avoid to define a lot duplicated contents in multiple configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this way, we can disassemble the configuration file, define some general configuration files, and inherit them in the specific configuration file. This could avoid defining a lot of duplicated contents in multiple configuration files.
```

### Modify the inherited fields

Sometimes, we want to modify some of the fields in the inherited files. For example we want to modify the learning rate from 0.02 to 0.01 after inheriting `optimizer_cfg.py`.

In this case, you can simply redefine the fields in the new configuration file. Note that since the optimizer field is a dictionary, we only need to redefine the modified fields. This rule also applies to adding fields.

`resnet50_lr0.01.py`：

```python
_base_ = ['optimizer_cfg.py', 'runtime_cfg.py']
model = dict(type='ResNet', depth=50)
optimizer = dict(lr=0.01)
```

After reading this configuration file, you can get the desired result.

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('resnet50_lr0.01.py')
print(cfg.optimizer)
```

```
{'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.01, 'momentum': 0.9, 'weight_decay': 0.0001}
```

> For non-dictionary fields, such as integers, strings, lists, etc., they can be completely overwritten by redefining them, for example, the code block blow will change the value of the `gpu_ids` to `[0]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For non-dictionary fields, such as integers, strings, lists, etc., they can be completely overwritten by redefining them. For example, the code block below will change the value of the `gpu_ids` to `[0]`.
```

```

At this point, `optimizer` will only have the keys `type` and `lr`. `momentum` and `weight_decay` will no longer exist.

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('resnet50_delete_key.py')
print(cfg.optimizer)
```

```
{'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.01}
```

### Reference of the inherited file

Sometimes we want to reuse the field defined in `_base_`, we can get a copy of the corresponding variable by using `{{_base_.xxxx}}`:

`refer_base_var.py`

```python
_base_ = ['resnet50.py']
a = {{_base_.model}}
```

After parsing, the value of `a` becomes `model` defined in `resnet50.py`

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('refer_base_var.py')
print(cfg.a)
```

```
{'type': 'ResNet', 'depth': 50}
```

We can use this way to get the variables defined in `_base_` in the `json`, `yaml`, and `python` configuration files.

Although this way is general for all types of files, there are some syntactic limitations that prevent us from taking full advantage of the dynamic nature of the `python` configuration file. For example, if we want to modify a variable defined in `_base_`:

```python
_base_ = ['resnet50.py']
a = {{_base_.model}}
a['type'] = 'MobileNet'
```

> The `Config` is not able to parse such a configuration file (it will raise an errors when parsing). The `Config` provides a more `pythonic` way to modify base variables for `python` configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Config` is not able to parse such a configuration file (it will raise an error when parsing). The `Config` provides a more `pythonic` way to modify base variables for `python` configuration files.
```

Similar to reading the configuration file, the user can choose the format of the dumped file by using `cfg.dump('config.xxx')`. `dump` can also export configuration files with inheritance relationships, and the dumped files can be used independently without the files defined in `_base_`.

Based on the `resnet50.py` defined above, we can load and dump it like this:

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('resnet50.py')
cfg.dump('resnet50_dump.py')
```

`resnet50_dump.py`

```python
optimizer = dict(type='SGD', lr=0.02, momentum=0.9, weight_decay=0.0001)
model = dict(type='ResNet', depth=50)
```

Similarly, we can dump configuration files in `json`, `yaml` format：

`resnet50_dump.yaml`

```yaml
model:
  depth: 50
  type: ResNet
optimizer:
  lr: 0.02
  momentum: 0.9
  type: SGD
  weight_decay: 0.0001
```

`resnet50_dump.json`

````json
{"optimizer": {"type": "SGD", "lr": 0.02, "momentum": 0.9, "weight_decay": 0.0001}, "model": {"type": "ResNet", "depth": 50}}

In addition, `dump` can also dump `cfg` loaded from a dictionary.

```python
cfg = Config(dict(a=1, b=2))
cfg.dump('dump_dict.py')
````

`dump_dict.py`

```python
a=1
b=2
```

# Advanced uses

> In this section, we'll introduce some advanced uses of the `Config`, and some tips could make it easier for users to develop and use downstream repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll introduce some advanced uses of the `Config`, and some tips that could make it easier for users to develop and use downstream repositories.
```

```

We successfully modified the learning rate from 0.01 to 0.1. If we want to change a list or a tuple, such as `in_channels` in the above example. We need to put double quotes around `()`, `[]` when assigning the value on the command line.

```bash
python demo_train.py ./example.py --cfg-options model.in_channels="[1, 1, 1]"
```

```
Config (path: ./example.py): {'model': {'type': 'CustomModel', 'in_channels': [1, 1, 1]}, 'optimizer': {'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.01}}
```

```{note}
The standard procedure only supports modifying String, Integer, Floating Point, Boolean, None, List, and Tuple fields from the command line. For the elements of list and tuple instance, each of them must be one of the above seven types.
```

### import the custom module

If we customize a module and register it into the corresponding registry, could we directly build it from the configuration file as the previous [section](#how-to-use-config) does? The answer is “I don't know”, since I'm not sure the register process has been triggered. To solve this "unknown" case, `Config` provides the `custom_imports` function, to make sure your module could be registered as expected.

> For example, we customize a optimizer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we customize an optimizer:
```

```python
from mmengine.registry import OPTIMIZERS

@OPTIMIZERS.register_module()
class CustomOptim:
    pass
```

A matched config file:

`my_module.py`

```python
optimizer = dict(type='CustomOptim')
```

To make sure `CustomOptim` will be registered, we should set the `custom_imports` field like this:

`custom_imports.py`

```python
custom_imports = dict(imports=['my_module'], allow_failed_imports=False)
optimizer = dict(type='CustomOptim')
```

And then, once the `custom_imports` can be loaded successfully, we can build the `CustomOptim` from the `custom_imports.py`.

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('custom_imports.py')

from mmengine.registry import OPTIMIZERS

custom_optim = OPTIMIZERS.build(cfg.optimizer)
print(custom_optim)
```

```
<my_module.CustomOptim object at 0x7f6983a87970>
```

### Inherit configuration files across repository

> It is annoying to copy a large number of configuration files when developing a new repository based on some existing repositories, `Config` support inherit configuration file from other repositories. For example,based on MMDetection, we want to develop a repository, we can use the MMDetection configuration file like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is annoying to copy a large number of configuration files when developing a new repository based on some existing repositories. To address this issue, `Config` support inherit configuration files from other repositories. For example,based on MMDetection, we want to develop a repository, we can use the MMDetection configuration file like this:
```

# Config

MMEngine implements an abstract configuration class (`Config`) to provide a unified configuration access interface for users. `Config` supports different type of configuration file, including `python`, `json` and `yaml`, and you can choose the type according to your preference. `Config` overrides some magic method, which could help you access the data stored in `Config` just like getting values from `dict`, or getting attributes from instances. Besides, `Config` also provides an inheritance mechanism, which could help you better organize and manage the configuration files.

> Before starting the tutorial, let's download the configuration files needed in the tutorial(it is recommended to execute them in a temporary directory to facilitate deleting these files latter.):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before starting the tutorial, let's download the configuration files needed in the tutorial (it is recommended to execute them in a temporary directory to facilitate deleting these files latter.):
```

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/learn_read_config.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/my_module.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/optimizer_cfg.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/predefined_var.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/refer_base_var.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/resnet50_delete_key.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/resnet50_lr0.01.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/resnet50_runtime.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/resnet50.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/runtime_cfg.py
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-mmlab/mmengine/main/docs/resources/config/modify_base_var.py
```

> ## Read the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Read the configuration file
```

`Config` provides a uniform interface `Config.fromfile()` to read and parse configuration files.

> A legitimate configuration file should define a set of key-value pairs, and here are a few examples:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A valid configuration file should define a set of key-value pairs, and here are a few examples:
```

Sometimes, the difference between two different configuration files is so small that only one field may be changed. Therefore, it's unwise to copy and paste everything only to modify one line, which makes it hard for us to locate the specific difference after a long time.

In another case, multiple configuration files may have the same batch of fields, and we have to copy and paste them in different configuration files. It will also be hard to maintain these fields in a long time.

We address these issues with inheritance mechanism, detailed as below.

### Overview of inheritance mechanism

Here is an example to illustrate the inheritance mechanism.

`optimizer_cfg.py`：

```python
optimizer = dict(type='SGD', lr=0.02, momentum=0.9, weight_decay=0.0001)
```

`resnet50.py`：

```python
_base_ = ['optimizer_cfg.py']
model = dict(type='ResNet', depth=50)
```

Although we don't define `optimizer` in `resnet50.py`, since we wrote `_base_ = ['optimizer_cfg.py']`, it will inherit the fields defined in `optimizer_cfg.py`.

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('resnet50.py')
print(cfg.optimizer)
```

```
{'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.02, 'momentum': 0.9, 'weight_decay': 0.0001}
```

> `_base_` is a reserved field for the configuration file. It specifies the inherited(base) files for the current file. Inheriting multiple files will get all the fields at the same time, but it requires that there is no repeated fields defined in all base files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`_base_` is a reserved field for the configuration file. It specifies the inherited base) files for the current file. Inheriting multiple files will get all the fields at the same time, but it requires that there are no repeated fields defined in all base files.
```

`refer_base_var.py`

```python
_base_ = ['resnet50.py']
a = {{_base_.model}}
```

After parsing, the value of `a` becomes `model` defined in `resnet50.py`

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('refer_base_var.py')
print(cfg.a)
```

```
{'type': 'ResNet', 'depth': 50}
```

We can use this way to get the variables defined in `_base_` in the `json`, `yaml`, and `python` configuration files.

Although this way is general for all types of files, there are some syntactic limitations that prevent us from taking full advantage of the dynamic nature of the `python` configuration file. For example, if we want to modify a variable defined in `_base_`:

```python
_base_ = ['resnet50.py']
a = {{_base_.model}}
a['type'] = 'MobileNet'
```

The `Config` is not able to parse such a configuration file (it will raise an error when parsing). The `Config` provides a more `pythonic` way to modify base variables for `python` configuration files.

`modify_base_var.py`：

```python
_base_ = ['resnet50.py']
a = _base_.model
a.type = 'MobileNet'
```

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('modify_base_var.py')
print(cfg.a)
```

```
{'type': 'MobileNet', 'depth': 50}
```

## Dump the configuration file

> The user may pass some parameters to modify some fields of the configuration file at the entry point of the training script.Therefore, we provide the `dump` method to export the changed configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user may pass some parameters to modify some fields of the configuration file at the entry point of the training script. Therefore, we provide the `dump` method to export the changed configuration file.
```

Similar to reading the configuration file, the user can choose the format of the dumped file by using `cfg.dump('config.xxx')`. `dump` can also export configuration files with inheritance relationships, and the dumped files can be used independently without the files defined in `_base_`.

Based on the `resnet50.py` defined above, we can load and dump it like this:

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('resnet50.py')
cfg.dump('resnet50_dump.py')
```

`resnet50_dump.py`

```python
optimizer = dict(type='SGD', lr=0.02, momentum=0.9, weight_decay=0.0001)
model = dict(type='ResNet', depth=50)
```

Similarly, we can dump configuration files in `json`, `yaml` format：

`resnet50_dump.yaml`

```yaml
model:
  depth: 50
  type: ResNet
optimizer:
  lr: 0.02
  momentum: 0.9
  type: SGD
  weight_decay: 0.0001
```

`resnet50_dump.json`

````json
{"optimizer": {"type": "SGD", "lr": 0.02, "momentum": 0.9, "weight_decay": 0.0001}, "model": {"type": "ResNet", "depth": 50}}

In addition, `dump` can also dump `cfg` loaded from a dictionary.

```python
cfg = Config(dict(a=1, b=2))
cfg.dump('dump_dict.py')
````

`dump_dict.py`

```python
a=1
b=2
```

> # Advanced uses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Advanced usage
```

> In this section, we'll introduce some advanced uses of the `Config`, and some tips that could make it easier for users to develop and use downstream repositories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll introduce some advanced usage of the `Config`, and some tips that could make it easier for users to develop and use downstream repositories.
```

## Predefined fields

Sometimes we need some fields in the configuration file, which are related to the path to the workspace. For example, we define a working directory in the configuration file that holds the models and logs for this set of experimental configurations. We expect to have different working directories for different configuration files. A common choice is to use the configuration file name directly as part of the working directory name.
Taking `predefined_var.py` as an example, the expected working directory is `. /work_dir/predefined_var`.

This can be achieved easily using predefined fields:

```python
cfg = Config.fromfile('./predefined_var.py')
print(cfg.work_dir)
```

```
./work_dir/predefined_var

> ```

Reviewer 2: miss some content

optimizer = dict(type='SGD', lr=0.01)
```

We can modify the internal fields from the command line by `.` For example, if we want to modify the learning rate, we only need to execute the script like this:

```bash
python demo_train.py ./example.py --cfg-options optimizer.lr=0.1
```

```
Config (path: ./example.py): {'model': {'type': 'CustomModel', 'in_channels': [1, 2, 3]}, 'optimizer': {'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.1}}
```

We successfully modified the learning rate from 0.01 to 0.1. If we want to change a list or a tuple, such as `in_channels` in the above example. We need to put double quotes around `()`, `[]` when assigning the value on the command line.

```bash
python demo_train.py ./example.py --cfg-options model.in_channels="[1, 1, 1]"
```

```
Config (path: ./example.py): {'model': {'type': 'CustomModel', 'in_channels': [1, 1, 1]}, 'optimizer': {'type': 'SGD', 'lr': 0.01}}
```

```{note}
The standard procedure only supports modifying String, Integer, Floating Point, Boolean, None, List, and Tuple fields from the command line. For the elements of list and tuple instance, each of them must be one of the above seven types.
```

### import the custom module

> If we customize a module and register it into the corresponding registry, could we directly build it from the configuration file as the previous [section](#how-to-use-config) does? The answer is “I don't know”, since I'm not sure the register process has been triggered. To solve this "unknown" case, `Config` provides the `custom_imports` function, to make sure your module could be registered as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we customize a module and register it into the corresponding registry, could we directly build it from the configuration file as the previous [section](#how-to-use-config) does? The answer is "I don't know" since I'm not sure the registration process has been triggered. To solve this "unknown" case, `Config` provides the `custom_imports` function, to make sure your module could be registered as expected.
```
